Added my second blog post: caching data with dataloader (#558)
the-guild-org/the-guild-website: pages/blog/caching-data-with-dataloader.mdx

import withArticle from '../../ui/blog/article'
export const meta = {
  title: 'Caching data with DataLoader',
  author: 'giladtidhar',

>   tags: ['cache', 'data', 'servers', 'graphql'],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  tags: ['cache', 'data', 'server', 'graphql'],
```

The `servers` tag does not exists, `server` does 👀

  date: '2022-1-12',
  description: 'How to use DataLoader to cache data',
  image: '/blog-assets/caching-data-with-dataloader/cover.png'
}
export default withArticle({ ...meta })

# Caching

> Caching data is an important thing, it could be the difference between a slow wasteful server and a fast efficient server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Caching is an essential part of designing scalable and performant GraphQL API.
```

But, what is caching?

> A cache is a place in memory for important data, which can be delivered to the client faster than the regular procedure.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Caching is the technical design of trying to avoid compute-intensive tasks by keeping temporarily their results in a cache.
A cache is a place in memory for important data, which can be delivered to the client faster than the regular procedure.

For example, for a GraphQL API, we might want to cache a field value that comes from a slow external API.
```

The goal of caching is to improve performance where it’s needed the most.

> ## how is caching faster?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How is caching faster?
```

> Using a cache for important data is faster because of a few reasons:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using a cache for compute-intensive data is faster for a few reasons:
```

> - A cache is usually not stored in storage, but in memory, which is a few times faster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A cache is usually not stored on disk or database but in memory, which is faster.
```

Author: I think it should say something along the line of "a lot more faster" because if this article is for people who are new to this subject, just saying "faster" might make them not implement, might not be worth the trouble of implementing if it's just "faster"

Reviewer: Agree 👍🏼

- A cache is smaller than a database, so there are a lot less values to filter through.

> - Data that is queried a lot of times will be fetched from the database only one time, so there's less time lost for fetching multiple times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- While some cached data might be queried a lot of times, it will be fetched from the database only one time, so there's less time lost for fetching multiple times.
```

> # how do we use caching?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# How do we use caching?
```

## About dataloader

My prefered platform for caching is dataloader, and in this tutorial I will explain how to use dataloader with Node.js and Typescript, to have caching in your server.

> ### A small caveat:
> 
> The dataloader package was created specifically for GraphQL, but it can work with other Node.js programs.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::tip `dataloader` outside of GraphQL 

The `dataloader` package was created specifically for GraphQL, but it can work with other Node.js programs.

:::
```

## Using dataloader

### 1. Install dataloader in your project

> To do that, just run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install `dataloader` by running the following:
```

`npm install --save dataloader` or `yarn add dataloader`

> ### 2. Create a dataloader instant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 2. Import `dataloader`
```

To start, import dataloader and LRU (LRU is a way to map cache data, it is installed with dataloader).

```ts
import DataLoader from 'dataloader'
import { LRUMap } from 'lru_map'
```

### 3. Define the types that would be saved to our cache

> The first type should be a way to represent the data, like a string with a name, and the other is the data itself.

Reviewer: It is not clear why we have `PackageName` and `PackageInfo` below.

Would be nice to have a small introductory paragraph explaining what we are trying to cache 🤓

//for example:
type DataType = {
  id: string
  name: string
  description?: string
}
```

### 4. Create the dataloader instant

```ts
const dataLoader = new DataLoader<PackageName, PackageInfo>(
  async (/* 1 */keys: readonly PackageName[]) => { /* 2 */
    return await Promise.all(
      keys.map((packageName) => {
        getData(packageName).catch((e) => e);
      })
    );
  },{
    cacheMap: new LRUMap(100/* 3 */);
  }
);
```

As you can see, we give the keys that the user asks for to the dataloader (1).

I recommend setting the keys to be some kind of id for the following reason:  
Lets say that in your api, the user asks for data using its id, so the user will fetch with `id:"something"`, you could just pass the id as the key, instead of changing it.

The dataloader will first check if it has the keys on cache, and if so, it would return the data, without going through the database.

After that (2), we give the dataloader a function for fetching the data, in case it doesn't have it in the cache.  
In this case, I have the function `getData`, and I'm using the keys to "get data" from my database.

> In the end (3) we give it cacheMap and some value, the value represents how many queries dataloader will cache, in this case, after a 100 values, it will delete the first value to make space for the 101th value.

Author: Oh right, my bad, didn't notice

From now, to query data, you just run

```ts
dataLoader.load(keys)
```

# Dataloader with GraphQL

> Dataloader was designed to work with GraphQL, to solve the [n+1 problem](https://medium.com/the-marcy-lab-school/what-is-the-n-1-problem-in-graphql-dd4921cb3c1a)

Author: Yeah this is good, didn't know how to explain the N+1 problem so I skipped it

## How to use the dataloader package with GraphQL?

> To use the dataloader with GraphQL just pass it in the context!

Reviewer: Here again, it would be nice to have a snippet of the corresponding schema to illustrate the implementation 👀

> ```ts

Reviewer: imports are missing

type PackageName = string;
type PackageInfo = Package;
export type GraphQLContext = {
  dataLoader: DataLoader<PackageName, PackageInfo>;
  ...
};
const dataLoader = new DataLoader<PackageName, PackageInfo>(
  async (keys: readonly PackageName[]) => {
    return await Promise.all(
      keys.map((packageName) => {
        npmApi.getPackage(packageName).catch((e) => e)
      })
    );
  },
  {
    cacheMap: new LRUMap(100),
  }
);
...
export async function contextFactory() {
  return { dataLoader, ... };
}
```

> Now, in your resolvers, just call `context.dataLoader.load(keys)` and that's it! You now have caching in your server!

Reviewer: Do we have other articles or video links for Further Reading?

Author: Not that I know of, but I'll search for some

`npm install --save dataloader` or `yarn add dataloader`

### 2. Import `dataloader`

To start, import `dataloader` and LRU (LRU is a cache algorithm that will put only the most _X_ requested items in the cache).

```ts
import DataLoader from 'dataloader'
import { LRUMap } from 'lru_map'
```

### 3. Define the types that would be saved to our cache

The first type should be a way to represent the data, like a string with a name, and the other is the data itself.  
For example, let's say we're trying to cache books. Our package name will be the books id, so we can tell which book is which.  
Our package data will be the books length, writer, price etc...

so in this case, our schema would look like this:

```ts
type book {
  id: ID!
  name: String!
  author: author!
  price: Int!
  description: String!
  length: Int!
}
type author {
  id: ID!
  name: String!
}
```

and the corresponding data type would look like this:

```graphql
type packageId = string
type PackageData = /* note that this is the type of the data we represent. */ {
  id: string
  name: string
  author: {
    id: string
    name: string
  }
  price: number
  description: string
  length: number
}
```

> The reason we want to have types is for type saftey, let's say we have books and toys which have different values, we wouldn't want that somehow toys will be inserted into our books cache

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reason we write types is for type safety, let's say we have books and toys which have different values, we wouldn't want that somehow toys will be inserted into our books cache
```

> ### 4. Create the dataloader instant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 4. Create the dataloader instance
```
